---
title:  "Vim(2)"
tags: Vim
---

# LeetCode Day 34: P206. Reverse Linked List (Easy)

## 题目

反转一个单向链表。

```
Input: 1->2->3->4->5->NULL
Output: 5->4->3->2->1->NULL
```

## 我的思路

依次修改箭头方向。

## 答案

```java
public class E_206_ReverseLinkedList {
    public ListNode reverseList(ListNode head) {
        ListNode current = head;
        ListNode pre = null;
        while(current != null) {
            current = current.next;
            head.next = pre;
            pre = head;
            head = current;
        }
        return pre;
    }
}
```

# Vim CRUD

## Insert

a/i/o, A/I/O

## Delete in normal mode

* x: delete one charater
* dw: delete a word, default is "daw", also delete all spaces after the word.
* diw: delete inner word
* dd: delete a line
* dt): delete to ")"
* d$: delete to end
* d0: delete to start
* 2dd: delete two lines
* 4x: delete four characters
* u: undo
* Ctrl + r: undo undo

## Change

r(replace), c(change), s(substitute)

* r: just replace a character
* R: Replace multiple characters.
* s: substitute and go to the insert mode.
* S: delete the whole line and go to insert mode.
* 4s: delete the next four characters and go to insert mode.
* cw: change the word. caw: change a word
* C: delete the whole line and insert
* ct*: change to something.

## Search

* / or ?    search forward or backwards
* n/N jump to next or last match
* \* or #   search for the same word as current word.
* :set hls  highlight words (not working on my computer)
* :set incsearch     increment search.

## Search and Replace

* substitute

:[range]s[ubstitute]/{pattern}/{string}/[flags]

10, 20 means 10-20 lines; % means all

* g     global
* c     confirm
* n     number: search for match number

For example:
`:% s/abc/def/g`
Substitute all "abc" to "def".

`:1,3 s/abc/def/g`
Substitute all "abc" to "def" between line 1 and line 3 include.

`:1,5 s/abc//n`
Counting number of a certain word. Count how many "abc" from line 1 to line 5.
(not working in the vscode vim, but it works in the linux vi)

* Substitute with Regex

`:% s/\<abc\>/def/g`
Only substitute the word "abc" without anything around.





