---
layout: post
title:  "Spring(1)----IoC"
tags: Spring framework Java IoC
---
### \#Tip of the Day: Long way to go

<br/><br/>

[Video Link](https://www.imooc.com/video/19046)

## What is Spring IoC?

IoC = Inversion of Control.

What to Control? What to Inverse?

Suppose Tom has a car named Audi, and Jerry has a car named Buick. There are four methods in the class
Car: `start, turnLeft, turnRight, stop`. Tom and Jerry want to use their cars to go to work, go home, 
go shopping, etc. Our code may looks like this:

```java
public class Tom {

    private Car audi = new Car();

    public void goHome() {
        audi.start();
        audi.turnLeft();
        audi.turnRight();
        audi.stop();
    }
}
```
In this case, Tom depends on a Car. We can say that this Car is a dependency of Tom.
Now, think about this: what if Tom wants to change his car to a Buick? And also, should this car be created 
by Tom?

We have to change all the occurrences if he wanted to change a new car, and obviously, this car should 
not be made by Tom. 

Therefore, the creating, controlling and destroying of a Car should be done by someone else. In Spring,
an IoC Container does these dirty works for us. All the objects in a Spring project are called beans, such 
as Car, Tom, Jerry. They are managed by an IoC container. 

A bean can be injected into another bean by its Constructor. Now, our code may look like this:

```java
public class Tom {

    Car car;
    
    public Tom(Car car) {
        super(car);
    }

    public void goHome() {
        car.start();
        car.turnLeft();
        car.turnRight();
        car.stop();
    }
}
```

## Create our own IoC

To understand what an IoC looks like, here is an example of a mock IoC Container. The code contains 
some Java reflection. You may need to learn Java reflection if you want to totally understand.

```java
public class IoCContainer {

    private Map<String, Object> beans = new ConcurrentHashMap<>();

    public Object getBean(String beanId){
        return beans.get(beanId);
    }

    public void setBeans(Class<?> clazz, String beanId, String... paramBeanId){
        Object[] paramValues = new Object[paramBeanId.length];
        for (int i = 0; i < paramBeanId.length; i++) {
            paramValues[i] = beans.get(paramBeanId[i]);
        }

        Object bean = null;

        for (Constructor<?> constructor : clazz.getConstructors()) {
            try {
                bean = constructor.newInstance(paramValues);
            } catch (InstantiationException e) {
                e.printStackTrace();
            } catch (IllegalAccessException e) {
                e.printStackTrace();
            } catch (InvocationTargetException e) {
                e.printStackTrace();
            }
        }
        if (bean == null) {
            throw new RuntimeException("Cannot find proper constructor to create bean");
        }
        beans.put(beanId, bean);

    }
}
```
The container uses a Map to store all the beans. The key is beanId, the value is the bean object.

Getting a bean is very simple. Get the value by its key.

Setting a bean is a little complex. If we only needed to create a bean with no dependency, such 
as a Car, we simply tell the container the beanId and the Class type of our bean. What if we need to 
create a bean like Tom or Jerry, a little more work is needed, because their constructors need 
some other objects as parameters, such as a Car. Thus, we need to pass in the dependency parameters and tell 
the container what dependencies are in this bean. To set a bean, the container checks its Map, gets all the beans by the 
beanIds, then loops the constructor of this bean that we want to create, to find out a proper constructor and 
create a bean with `newInstance(paramValues)`. Finally, put this bean into the Map.

## IoC Container and Beans

* Package: org.springframework.beans, org.springframework.context
* Interface: 
    BeanFactory: provides the configuration framework and basic functionality.
    ApplicationContext: adds more enterprise-specific functionality. 
    




