---
title:  "Network(5) -- Delay, Loss, and Throughput in Packet-Switched Networks"
tags: Network
---

# Delay, Loss, and Throughput in Packet-Switched Networks

## Overview of Delays

The most important of these delays are the **nodal processing delay, queuing delay, transmission delay, and propagation delay.** Together, these delays give a **total nodal delay**.

## Processing Delay

The time required to examine the packet’s header and determine where to direct the packet is part of the **processing delay**. It also include the time needed to check for bit-level errors in the packet. In **microseconds**.

## Queuing Delay

It waits to be transmitted onto the link.

The number of packets that an arriving packet might expect to find is a function of the intensity and nature of the traffic arriving at the queue. In **microseconds to milliseconds**.

## Transmission Delay

Our packet can be transmitted only after all the packets that have arrived before it have been transmitted.

* The length of the packet: L bits.
* Transmission rate: R bits/sec.

Then, the **transmission delay** is L/R. In **microseconds to milliseconds**.

## Propagation Delay

The time required to propagate from the beginning of the link to router B is the propagation delay.

The propagation delay is the distance between two router A and router B and s is the propagation speed of the link.

## The difference between transmission delay and propagation delay

* The transmission delay is the amount of time required for the router to push out the packet; it is a function of the packet's length and the transmission rate of the link, but has nothing to do with the distance between the two routers.
* The propagation delay is the time it takes a bit to propagate from one router to the next; it is a function of the distance between the two routers, but has nothing to do with the packet's length or the transmission rate of the link.


