---
title:  "Angular My first app"
tags: Angular
---

### Day 9: 

## Environment

Install node and npm first. Then install angular.

```
npm install -g @angular/cli
ng new my-first-app
cd my-first-app
ng serve
```

-g means global in your system. 
ng new means creating a new project.
ng serve means starting the application in port 4200.

## Editing the app

### The package structure

package.json has all the dependencies we need in this project.
e2e is end-to-end testing.
node_modules is the package that the dependencies installed in.
In the src->app folder, app.component.html is the html file that displayed in the browser.

The entrance of the program is always index.html in the root folder. Inside it, there is a tag called app-root, which 
will be replaced by the angular project.

In the app.component.ts file, there is an annotation @Component which includes a selector, app-root. I think this 
will replace the original index.html file with the template file app.component.html. We defined the `title` in this
class, so we can use it in the template html file.

### Modify the files

We can modify the app.component.html file as we like. Add an input, and use a directive `[(ngModel)]="name"` to bind
this input with the `name` that we defined in our component class. Additionally, we need to import the module that is 
needed for a input, which is the form module.

In the app.modules.ts file:

```typescript
import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';
```

Then add the FormsModule in the imports array:

```typescript
imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    FormsModule
]
```

## Installing bootstrap locally in this project

```
npm install --save bootstrap@3
```

This command will download bootstrap and save it inside the node_modules folder.

To make angular aware of this, we have to also modify the angular.json file. There is already a style configuration 
in this file

```json
"styles": [
  "src/styles.css"
],
```

This points to the css file in the root, which is used globally. We need to add the bootstrap above it.

```json
"styles": [
  "node_modules/bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css",
  "src/styles.css"
],
```

* To make this change take effect, run ng serve to restart the server. * 