---
title:  "AI(1) -- Introduction"
tags: AI
---

### New Applications

* speech recognition
* machine translation
* autonomous vehicles
* household robotics

### Code Repository / Website

aima.cs.berkeley.edu

## What is AI?

Thinking Humanly, Thinking Rationally, Acting Humanly, Acting Rationally.

### The Turing Test

if a human interogator, after posing some written questions, cannot tell whether the written responses come from a person or from a computer.

The computer would need to possess the following capabilities:

* natural language processing
* knowledge representation
* automated reasoning
* machine learning

### Total Turing Test

includes a video signal, will need:

* computer vision
* robotics

This book concentrates on general princiles of rational agents and on components for constructing them.

## The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence

### Philosophy

syllogisms, rationalism, empiricism, confirmation theory.

connection between knowledge and action.

### Mathematics

Boole, first-order logic, computable, tractability, NP-completeness, probability.

### Economics

Decision theory, game theory, operations research, Markov decision processes

### Neuroscience

a collection of simple cells can lead to thought, action, and consciousness. 

### Psychology

Cognitive psychology

### Computer engineering

### Control theory and cybernetics

### Linguistics

computational linguistics or natural language processing, knowledge representation

## The History of Artificial Intelligence

* The gestation of artificial intellegence (1943-1955)
* The birth of artificial intelligence (1956)
* Early enthusiasm, great expectations (1952-1969)
* A dose of reality (1966-1973)
* Knowledge-based systems: The key to power? (1969-1979)
* AI becomes an industry (1980-present)
* The return of neural networks (1986-present)
* AI adopts the scientific method (1987-present)
* The emergence of intelligent agents (1995-present)
* The availability of very large data sets (2001-present)








